Hello this is Carol from for explode dot com.
And welcome to the 24th tutorial on algorithmic trading for beginners.
And today we're going to be discussing the design of our algorithmic trading system what you see in
front of your screen right now is something what I call the blueprint of an algorithmic trading system
and simply put this is a diagram showing the set of string the logic behind our trading strategy which
will be the core of the algorithmic Chase system.
And as you can see I've highlighted some three different parts blue red and green.
But before we go deeper into this diagram Let's quickly look at a recap on what we discussed in the
previous tutorial.
The idea behind the trading strategy.
So if I bring up a or for you it should be familiar with this chart which I marked up previously.
If you are not then I would strongly advise for you to first watch the previous tutorial to understand
what the strategy is about.
However let's move on so what else strategy as you recall what a strategy is doing it is checking if
the British pound dollar has moved in a certain direction after the day has been opened to the day opening
of the day of each day are marked with these vertical lines and then the red or the blue lines show
which in which direction the market moved initially and then around 9:00 or 10:00.
Well let's say force simplicity's sake we'll say nine o'clock at 9:00 we're looking to see whether the
market has moved up or down.
Up until this point and if it's been moving downwards then we will trade upwards if it's been moving
upwards will trade downwards.
And it's all based on as of that we think that there is a pattern in the market which we can exploit.
So going back to our presentation here.
This is basically the same thing what we just said in words this is this has been put into a diagram
or here.
So let's quickly try to understand what's happening.
The program starts at the top.
It moves into this diamond first and every diamond is a decision.
So first the program has to check if the hour is 9:00 or not.
So let's assume the hour is 9:00 in the morning then we're going down this path.
So yes the hours 9:00 now we have to check if flag is true.
So what the flag is the flag is something very specific to you or in this case this flag is a specific.
Well it's a necessity which is specific to kill for because of the way that expert advisors work and
they will execute on tick function with every new tick that comes to that chart.
And this is something we discussed previously in this course because of that we cannot just check that
if the time is 9:00 and then do all of our required
procedures because the time is 9:00 in the morning.
In that one hour they can be thousands of takes that can be literally lots and lots and lots of ticks
come through.
And that condition this condition or here will be correct for every single one of them because we're
all we're doing is checking the hour and not checking the minute for not checking the second.
Even in the ninth hour and the first minute and the First Second it can be several takes or they can
be none so we can just check for 9:00 one minute and one second we have to have a different check.
So what we will do is we are looking for the ferry first take in the ninth hour of any given day and
to do that we are introducing a flag.
So originally initially the flag will always be false flag will always be true meaning that the first
take this is the first take.
So if the flag is true then it is the first take and then we we start executing the rest of this algorithm.
But before we do that the first thing we do is we set the flag to false saying it's telling us that
the next tick that will come will no longer be the very first tick of the hour.
And so next time when the strategy goes this way with the next if the second tick of the 9:00 hour he'll
go here Ill go here.
But then the flag will already be false and so nothing will be done at all exit.
And so every third fourth and so on.
All it takes after the first will be going down this route.
So only the first take will go down this way and it will set the flag to false and then all of this
will be executed.
But only for the first tick and that is good because we only want to execute our strategy once at 9:00.
Not not a thousand times.
So after we fire serious set the Flucht falls.
What we're doing is we're the spread part is responsible for checking if there is any you know if there's
any orders that already exists so if we have an existing order we want to check if we're basically we
want to close it so we have the ticket number as you remember we know how to.
After sending the order how to preserve the ticket number of that order.
So using that ticket number will select in the order and that order select to something we discussed
in an earlier in the course.
Then if we have successfully if if we weren't successful at selecting the order that could mean probably
or the only case when that will most likely happen is at the very start of our algorithm so when we
haven't sent any orders are Tich will our ticket variable be zero.
So we won't be able to select an order so we'll just proceed to executing Greenport which is actual
the trading strategy the actual sending of the order.
So but if we were able to select the ticket or the order then we have to try and close it.
So we move on and we check if the close time of the order is zero.
So this as I recall from our order select Toral This is the way that we check if the order has already
been closed for it could have been close to various other reasons like the stop loss has been triggered
or the take profit has been triggered.
So before closing the order over here we have to check if it has already been closed so closed time
is zero.
That means that there order doesn't have a close time and that means we need to close it so close time
Yes then we close those if close time is non-zero meaning that there is already a close time assigned
to this order by meditator for then we don't bother closing it because it is already a closed order
and proceed to the green part.
The main trading strategy.
So once we close the order we do the failsafe mechanism so I didn't write it all out because we have
done the failsafe so many times already.
It should just come off the bat for us by now.
It's very simple we just check if there has been an error if there has then we alert the trade it hasn't
we just continued doing what we were.
So that's why I put Fail-Safe is just one circle.
We implement a failsafe mechanism and then we proceed to executing our strategy.
All right so by the time we get here because of all of this red bit we are confident that there is no
more open orders or by our trading system our algorithmic trading system has no open orders and now
we can go ahead and open a new order if the conditions are met.
So now we're going to check the conditions.
The first condition is is the price lower here.
We're checking if the price has moved up or down if the price is lower.
That means going back to the chart like in this case the price is lower than it was at the beginning
of the day.
So when that happens that means we potentially can open a buy order if the price is not lower it means
that it's higher.
And in that case we can potentially open a cell.
So if it is lower and we intend on opening a buy order we have to also check our filter the filter which
we introduced also in the previous lecture and as discussed before because we were trading the retracement
of a trend we want to buy below the Amay and sell about the Amay.
So if if we intending on doing a buy order and we checked that or the price is below Amay.
If the answer is no then we don't do anything and we exit.
If the answer is yes then we do open a buy order we implement a failsafe mechanism and then we exit.
Similarly if the price is not lower than it has then it can.
We're potentially looking at opening a sell order.
So we have to check if it is above the M8 if it is above them.
If it's not above them and then we just exit doing nothing if it is not above them.
If it is above them and then we do open a sell order failsafe mechanism and then we exit.
So we've discussed all of these dynamics if this over here which is floury is true.
So going back to the blue part which is responsible for checking time and making sure we only trade
on one tick what does this flag equal Strood do for us.
So once we're in here and say it's nine o'clock the very first take then we'll go through this pathway
will somehow we'll get to the green part and maybe open or maybe not.
Then every next second third fourth and fifth as discussed will go down this path we won't do anything.
And then as soon as it's no longer 9:00 when it's 10:00 11:00 and so on for the third day or even before
9:00 the tix will always go down this path.
And we can use this opportunity to reset our flag.
So once we know it's 10:00 or it's the next hour we know that we should go ahead and set the flag to
true meaning that the next tick that comes at and and has will comes within at 9:00 will be the first
take of nine o'clock.
So after nine o'clock all the ticks go here 10 and 11 and 12 at 13 and then in the morning at 6:00 AM
7 and so on 8:00 a.m. and then all of the ticks have been going here so we're guaranteed that the flag
is set to true so when the first tick does arrive for 9:00 it will go this way and we'll see that the
flag is true because we have said it so.
And then this will will be executed and then the next X will go this way and then after 9:00 they'll
go this way and then reset the flight.
So that's in a lot of detail how our training strategy works.
And if we sum it up with just a few very short and simple diagram then it will look like this.
So in the blue part we check that tie check time condition and make sure that this is the first take
of this bar.
Once we've done that we go and we close existing orders.
If it is an existing order if it is still open once we've done that would open relevant order if entry
conditions are met.
So this is a very simplified view of our trading strategy and this is how you would start thinking about
what what's your algorithmic trading system will look like.
But once you've done that then it is very highly advisable to create something like this which is detail
that can take can take maybe half an hour an hour to put this together.
But once you have it in front of you you know exactly what you do which algorithmic trading system will
look like and what you need to program and the programming part will be very very simple.
Just before we finish this to trial I'll just like to recommend a tool which I use to put this together.
So I previously try.
Or I was used to putting them together in PowerPoint is used to take so long but now I know about the
still Liffey it's a tool which you can do.
I'm using a trial right now so you get a 15 day trial it's an online tool and you can put these diagrams
together very easily and like the like if I drag this around as you can see it's following it's following
where I'm putting it you can change the colors and you can add any kinds of shapes you want and you
can make it very simple and easy to understand.
And it also allows you to change quickly change colors and make make it like a really cool diagram at
all the controls are basically at your fingertips I really like this tool and I'm going to use it for
use it going forward with my diagrams and I would like to recommend it to you as well.
So.
So that's basically it.
That's the end of this Tauriel this diagram both of these diagrams will be available on w w w dot for
spot dot com.
So that kind of sums it up.
And and if you're watching on to me then I would like to ask for small favor.
Up here there's a review board.
And I'd really appreciate if you could leave me a rating and write a review in that way you can help
other students see if this course is worth their while and help them make a better informed decision
on whether they should take it or not.
And in the next tutorial we're going to we're going to actually start programming our expert adviser
which is very exciting and I hope to see you there.
Until then decoding.